# Automated testing

## Skills
<ul>
  <li>
    <ul>
      <li>
          Automated Testing Fundamentals
      <li>* [x] Types of tests</li>
      <li>* [x] Benefits</li>
      <li>* [x] TDD - Test Driven Development</li>
      <li>* [x] Best practices and standards</li>
    </ul>
 </li>
      
  <li>
      <ul>
       <li>
          JUnit
            <li>* [x] Basic (vanilla)</li>
            <li>* [x] Spring Boot</li>
            <li>* [x] Repositories</li>
            <li>* [x] Resources (web)</li>
            <li>* [x] Integration</li>
        </li>
     </ul>
  </li>
  
   <li>
      <ul>
       <li>
          Mockito & MockBean
            <li>* [x] @Mock</li>
            <li>* [x] @InjectMocks</li>
            <li>* [x] Mockito.when / thenReturn / doNothing / doThrow</li>
            <li>* [x] ArgumentMatchers</li>
            <li>* [ ] Integration</li>
            <li>* [ ] Mockito.verify</li>
            <li>* [ ] @MockBean</li>
            <li>* [ ] @MockMvc</li>
        </li>
     </ul>
  </li>
</ul>


## Automated Testing Fundamentals

### Types of Tests

#### Unitary

<p>Test done by the developer, responsible for validating the behavior of functional code units. In this context, it is understood as a functional unit any piece of code that, through some stimulus, is capable of generating an expected behavior (in practice: methods of a class). A unit test cannot access other components or external resources (files, database, network, web services, etc.).</p>

#### Integration
<p>Test focused on verifying if the communication between application components / modules, as well as external resources, are interacting with each other correctly.</p>

#### Functional
<p>It is a test from the user's point of view, whether a certain functionality is performing correctly, producing the result or behavior desired by the user.</p>


## Benefits

<ul>
  <li>Easily detect if changes violate the rules</li>
  <li>It is a form of documentation (behavior and expected inputs/outputs)</li>
  <li>Reduction of maintenance costs, especially in advanced stages</li>
  <li>Improves solution design as the testable application needs to be well designed</li>
</ul>

## TDD - Test Driven Development
<p>It's a method of developing software. It consists of test-driven development.</p>

<p>Principles / advantages:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Focus on requirements</li>
  <li>Tends to improve code design as code should be testable</li>
  <li>Increments in the project are less likely to break the application</li>
</ul>

<p>Basic process:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Write the test as expected (of course it will still be failing)</li>
  <li>Implement the code necessary for the test to pass</li>
  <li>Refactor code as needed</li>
</ul>

## Good practices and standards

#### Nomenclature of a test
<ul>
  <li> <</>ACTION></> should <</>EFFECT></> [when <</>SCENERY></>]</li>
</ul>


#### Standard AAA
<ul>
  <li>Arrange: instance of common objects</li>
  <li>Act: run as needed</li>
  <li>Assert: declare what Should happen (expected result)</li>
</ul>

#### Dependency Inversion Principle (SOLID)
<ul>
  <li>If class A depends on an instance of class B, there is no way to test class A in isolation. In fact, it wouldn't even be a unit test.</li>
  <li>Inversion of control aids in testability, and ensures isolation of the unit under test.</li>
</ul>

#### Independence / isolation
<ul>
  <li>A test cannot depend on other tests, nor on the order of execution</li>
</ul>

#### Unique scenario
<ul>
  <li>The test should have simple, linear logic</li>
  <li>The test should test only one scenario</li>
  <li>Don't use conditionals and loops</li>
</ul>

#### Predictability
<ul>
  <li>The result of a test must always be the same for the same data.</li>
  <li>Don't make the result depend on things that vary, such as current timestamp and random values.</li>
</ul>
